oh no this is good that's great okay
perfect
so now I'm gonna ask you guys so we're
so a big question is how do I figure out
my thermal right so people are asking
that and and so I want you guys to tell
me we're gonna start with like what is
what do you guys think my Darla's your
Dharma is to help other people figure
out their Dharma okay what do you guys
think Jake you're you're typing with
them sorry my brother so what do you
guys think is is my Dharma to help other
people figure out their Dharma I mean
you also have a duty to your family
right at this point I'd like to raise
your children too
yeah absolutely your wife absolutely
okay so and then someone else said
something like like before you know the
n-bomb started flying somebody said
something about I do you guys remember
what that other dude said because that
that was like I thought a pretty good
answer no okay that's okay
so what other people do other people
think that there's like an additional
Dharma about AoE hewing right and and
you've talked before about your your
particular mission to help people who
have suffered from video game addiction
because you feel like other
psychologists and particularly experts
in the field have not been able to
address the problem hey sorry you guys
hear me yep okay finally my mic was
malfunctioning yeah I was the one
speaking with you about Dharma early and
what did you say so I think it's
essentially again I'm really new to all
the vocabulary especially with you I
don't really know much about like can do
spiritualism
but it's effectively like your greater
sense of purpose in life your meaning
your sort of spiritual essence as well
yeah sure great
very good inference so you said
something else like what do you think my
Dharma is so I think that you have this
place in society now where we're
encountering a lot of problems right now
especially with people being like very
hedonistic in an irrational way people
being very not nihilistic but just like
irrationally
considering like all the opportunities
they have in life and not really being
capable of dealing with the modern world
and you're sort of here to help people
sort that out because you've done it
yourself how to deal with the modern
world and its lack of meaning okay so
now we're gonna check in with twitch at
what do you guys think you guys think
these guys have a good sense of my
Dharma can we get like a thumbs up if
you think it's okay I know yeah so so
then the question becomes like how do
you guys think I got into this Tarbell
like how did I discover my Dharma
um well going in line with what I was
saying I think you have a lot of
personal experience with this and you'd
like to mirror it onto other people it's
just a natural empathy response you know
so you struggled a lot I'm assuming in
the earlier life you've talked about
your struggles in college and such and
so overcoming those experiences was
really fulfilling and you want other
people to experience it it's kind of
like how xqc everyone likes him when he
reacts to videos and you know you like
sharing your ideas your thoughts your
Joy's with other people it the same way
so that's my idea yeah so okay so you're
saying that at the beginning there was
personal experience right and that these
are related and that I had right so in
the past but how did I so at what point
like how did I get from personal
experience to my current Dharma so like
I started playing video games like I
failed out and almost failed out of
college you know when I was like 18 and
it's been not that was 19 years ago so
like how did I get from here to here
you're spot-on dude that like my
personal experience is central to what I
do now so
that maybe we could conceptualize us as
as your personal experience plus the
recognition of a need for sort of a hole
to be filled okay
so I I agree so wreck it all got how do
I even boomer okay so recognition of a
need to be filled right so how does that
happen how does this happen so what with
you you said something more along the
lines of your parents or your dad sort
of kicked you to go to India yeah well
there yeah so was it that sort of like
support structure that kicked you and
made you do that sort of the start of
your journey to transition absolutely
right so that falls under personal
experience though right that has nothing
to do with recognizing that the the
modern world has its has a lack of
meaning you with me yeah you're spot on
that that was crucial to my journey but
that was part of like making me who I am
so then ones are the meditation itself
nope
right so meditation falls under this too
so so you guys are saying that like okay
now I'm trying to help other people
that's my Dharma I agree a Oh a healing
lack of like someone said something
about how young men are directionless in
life right now and so that might harm us
to help them but how did I get from
meditating to in India to all of this
stuff right so you can even say med
school Harvard and II it's a truth right
those are all personal experiences how
do this is this is the key thing you're
all are spot-on recognition of a need to
be fulfilled yeah I'm sorry I really
don't understand the question that sorry
did you really I used to talk about how
your Dharma has changed and how you know
so this is good I'm glad you cuz this is
what everyone is missing when they think
about Dharma right so I want you guys to
think about so I was this person right
this is me like five years ago
I was oh I know I know
so for one I'm sure that you absorbed a
lot of media and like from there you
sort of derive like a lot of yourself so
like maybe you identified with
characters in certain games maybe you
identified with like certain motifs and
movies and stuff and then like from
there you sort of derived like oh this
is who I ought to be in life you know
maybe I want to be like this healer
character oh he'll be like this I don't
know that's nope that's actually
incorrect right so the and it's it's a
weird question I'm not trying to get you
guys to feel stupid I'm really not but
it's it's something that we've never
talked about on stream before and it's
something that's a gaping hole when it
comes to Dharma so I'll tell you guys in
the moment that I realized that this is
a need that needs to be fulfilled so I
did I posted on reddit and I did an AMA
like back in 2000 19 or 18 I forget now
because it's blurry I think September of
2018 and after that AMA I decided oh
there's a need that needs to be
fulfilled so what do you guys think like
how does doing an AMA result in my
recognition that a need has to be
fulfilled you get a lot of response to
that AMA in both itself and in personal
messages afterwards and you realize it
that so you've talked about your
experience with a mentor of yours saying
that that the need to play video games
is similar to they need to get a tattoo
and that didn't make any sense to you so
and then that combined with the fact
that gamers seem to mmm seem to mostly
be searching for some sort of help okay
so spot-on right so like what do you
guys think so from the other people who
heard capture God's answer what do you
guys think is the most important thing
out of everything he said in terms of
helping me discover my Dharma didn't
know no people reaching out to you and
your your site into how many people
needed help so this is very important
this is karma okay so karma is karma
which is the principle of cause and
effect so in its simplest form is if I
throw up all
up in the air the ball is gonna come
down that's just all that karma says but
the big thing that most people are
missing when it comes to their Dharma is
that Dharma is not a sole endeavor if no
one upvoted the ama and it just never
got any traction we would literally not
be here right now
the world has to give me something to
let me know what it wants you guys get
that like without this critical step if
we take this away this never gets
connected these two things never get
connected in addition to that in
addition to that isn't there the the
reckful interview which should give that
a lot of people want which specifically
wanted to hear what you had absolutely
right so just think about this for a
second so if I'm sitting at home and I'm
trying to figure out my Dharma how
successful am I gonna be probably very
unsuccessful but why
well because you know it's this
principle of karma that you're talking
about now you're not getting positive
outreach not getting any feedback that
will allow you to change anything here
yes so now I'm gonna give you guys
another question so if I'm a doctor and
I'm working in the emergency room how do
I know what my Dharma on that shift is
what's my time on that shift to have a
more firm and actually to serve other
people and help me so serve other people
abstractly like am i sitting there and
I'm saying specifically that you're
assigned and how do but how do I know
like how do I figure out my Dharma huge
eat
like by their responses by what they
tell somebody comes in and needs Oh
exactly Jake exactly so you guys have to
understand that Dharma is not a sole
pursuit right Dharma is about what the
world tells you it needs so if someone
comes in after a motor vehicle accident
that is a different Dharma from someone
coming in because they're having an
allergic reaction
my daughter Maude depends on what the
world sends my way and this is the thing
that everyone is currently missing
because I haven't explained it because
we just haven't gotten that far but it's
amazing that we're able to get here
because I get thousands of questions
about how do I find my Dharma and I'm
trying to I don't know how to explain to
people besides doing something like this
that you guys understand so my Dharma is
clear but who discovered my Dharma was
it something that I found out like by
myself world discovery Dharma for you
yes right that my Dharma is is a is a a
meeting between who I am and what the
world asks of me that's Donna so if you
think about Rosa Parks or MLK or Mahatma
Gandhi right these are people that were
just like certain like or relatively
like normal people because at the end of
the day we're all normal people and then
the world shows up and ask something of
you and then the question is are you
prepared to actually do it yes so what
if you're not prepared so then what do
you got where do you think you should
start now let's go back in time and you
guys be my teacher and you take 18 year
old me who's failing out of college and
I come to you guys and I say what is my
Dharma and what do you tell me it's
impossible to know honestly can I like
pose a question because I don't know if
I fully understand the concept here sure
do you think that like your purpose in
life your Dharma is what you call it is
necessarily dependent on what society
demands of you and like what people like
and the reason I say this is because so
many of the people that I admire and
look up to especially in history they're
they seem to be like totally independent
from their time right so like so many
great artists and stuff they weren't
making art to make other people happy
they made it to make their like own
Souls fulfilled I don't know yeah that's
a great question so I think that that it
I don't think that your Dharma has to
cater to what society wants I think that
in that moment they were doing their
Dharma because actually what society
needed especially if you look at
something like art the whole point about
why important art is important is
because it changes and pushes society
forward right it's not accepting where
society is it's pushing things forward
if we think about what my Dharma is it's
pushing things forward and karma doesn't
have to be grandiose because you guys
like you know I'm glad someone mentioned
this because at the end of the day if I
had to rank my Dharma this is how I do
it right and then this is two plus so
like so what about the people that
hundreds of millions of people that we
are not going to have a huge impact on
the world so that's the thing is people
are confusing Dharma with like grand
things but karma is not grandiose and
that's just because the examples that we
use tend to be grandiose like Rosa Parks
or MLK or whatever right like AoE
healing but you guys have to understand
that like that doesn't my first term Oz
to my family and the only reason that my
Dharma got big is because the world
asked it of me but at the end of the day
like this in this if we take this out
and we delete all this that's enough
right it's enough for me to just be a
doctor and try to help people who come
into my office with depression every day
it's enough to like raise my kids and
raise them to be decent human beings
it's enough that's something you're
gonna have to figure out on your own but
I don't want to I don't want to keep
butting in but go for it I'm just like
very concerned that this all seems like
too much like adherent to society in a
way that I think could be really
negative like for instance you put like
family up there's number one I don't
have a very strong connection to my
family and I think disconnecting myself
from my family has actually been like
one of the best things that I've had to
do in my life so instead of like
developing my sense of meaning from
other people around me ask of me I think
rationally like about like oh what are
the things I enjoy to do most in life
what do I think people need the most in
life I don't let other people make that
failing for me
I sort of like derive it on my own using
like logic and reason is that like I
don't know you might be saying the same
thing but phrasing it differently just
tell me about it yeah so I think that's
a great thing because here's the thing I
had a loving family right digital
dystopia you did not so like how many
people out there do you think have a
loving family like what percent on
people
it depends obviously on the location but
I mean like half the people are divorced
now right I'm pretty sure like that's
way less than what it should so we
talked earlier about how my personal
experience
helps me do a Oh a healing at this point
so when it comes to someone who has a
broken family who do you think has a
better
garma in order to help them me or you I
don't know I really can answer
use I mean you because you're more
established in your in a situation in
your life where you can't help them
comfortably right so I think that if
digital dystopia thinks that like so I
I'm not saying that family should be at
the top of everyone's Therma that's just
that what's at the top of mine because
I've chosen to have a family and in your
case your experiences are different and
if you don't want to live based on
society what society is telling you I
think that's fantastic I think that's
part of your Dharma I think part of your
Dharma is to figure out okay for all the
people out there for whom society's
formulas do not work you can be an
example to those people yeah you can
help me those people it's not Dharma
that's bothering me it's Karma because
you were telling me you have to derive
your Dharma from like what other people
are demanding what other people are
telling you and sometimes what other
people demand is wrong and it's not
actually good and right absolutely right
so when Rosa Parks was sitting at the
front of the bus sorry I don't know how
much you guys know about like the
American civil rights movement garma was
telling her you got to go sit at the
back of the bus because you're black
that's what society was asking her what
did she do
yes she sat in the front because
obviously it was better for society in
the long term it's irrational in the
service so she decided that I'm gonna
say I'm gonna flip the middle finger to
society and I'm gonna do what I want
because I think it is your I think it is
right and what I'm hearing you say
digital dystopia is that like you are
doing that same thing you are not
trusting society you are not trusting
society's values and you are figuring
out your own way forward and that is an
incredibly important journey not only
for yourself but I suspect for other
people should karma show up one day and
someone is gonna ask you for help you're
gonna open your mouth one day and people
are gonna be listening and then
someone's gonna be like hey man I really
liked what you said can you tell me a
little bit about like how you learned
how you figured that out
that's your so your your suggestion to
people who are in very toxic situations
with their family or with their loved
ones or whatever is to just focus on
themselves and and be as morally right
as they can be and the people in their
life will eventually
come along no no I mean so I think I
agree with everything except for the
last part right so doing your Dharma if
you're in a family situation that sucks
I think it is important to do your
Dharma in that family situation but this
is where doing your Dharma in the family
situation doesn't mean repairing the
family sometimes like you have a Dharma
to yourself and you haven't ARMA to your
family and there's a difference between
doing the best that you can and then
letting them go if they're not willing
to meet you halfway and like sacrificing
everything that you are to make your
family happy which I don't think is a
good idea
right so I think doing your Dharma is
not about a particular outcome it's like
okay I gave so my family is [ __ ] up
and I did the best that I could to like
really try to make a relationship with
them but my dad is narcissistic and my
mom has borderline personality disorder
and they're just not willing to meet me
halfway then you let them go and you go
on and you live your own life and you
find someone that you care about and you
build your own family of people that
you're loyal to you cannot fix your
family dynamics and it is not karma is
not about an outcome it's about your
actions right did you do enough and if
you did enough you should be able to
walk away without regret you walk away
with peace you say you know I did the
best that I could but like it takes it
takes two to make a relationship work
antara is about doing your part and once
you walk away for the next five years
you tell yourself okay on Christmas in
their birthday I'm gonna call them and
I'm gonna send them a card and you you
set that up in your mind you say that's
what I'm gonna do and over the next five
years you do that thing and you stick to
your Dharma and they never call you on
your birthday and they never send you a
card on year six done you did your part
and you walk away with it peacefully
that makes okay I have a slight question
and this is gonna be controversial go
for it
so so what about how do you know that
your Dharma is right so the the
situation I'm thinking of is a person
who believes that their Dharma is to
convince the world that races should not
be equal something like that right which
is going to be very controversial but
somebody could potential
believe that and believe it very
strongly and believe that that is their
Dharma so how can you tell if that's the
wrong thing to be doing great question
so let me put it to you this way uh when
whenever we think things we think we're
right right like so like I wouldn't say
that okay so I think you're in the
minority but generally speaking when our
mind comes to a conclusion most people
respond to that conclusion as if it's
correct like when I walk to the bathroom
I have the assumption that if I flood
like pull the handle on the flush that
the toilet will flush and I operate
through my day in most of the time like
my mind is like giving me off like
hypotheses which I just sort of trust to
be correct and most human beings think
that their thoughts are correct I'd say
it depends but in general I'll follow
you and say yeah yeah so I think it's
good for you to say that you don't think
that way because but I think that's rare
I think if you just like go on Reddit
and you post an opinion most of the
responses that you're gonna get on
reddit are not gonna have like some
degree of self reflection they're gonna
have people telling you that that you're
wrong in there right right and to be
clear my question is oriented towards
the direction of how do you convince
those people who you believe are clearly
in the wrong but they believe they're
clearly in the that okay so I'm their
Dharma correct because it applies to
them like if they honestly believe that
they should pursue this like racist
ideal is that actually their Dharma even
though it's objectively bad for society
but they okay if it's correct you're
changing the question Captagon
the question that you asked is if I
believe something how do I know that my
Dharma is correct that's different from
if I believe if someone else believes
something is correct how do I convince
them otherwise those are two separate
questions right no I don't think they
are I think they are so I think figuring
out your Dharma is very different from
convincing someone else of their Dharma
one is subjective one relates to another
human being do you with me um I think it
depends on how you classify ideas that's
not bullying you if you treat all ideas
as equal to begin with and then evaluate
them sort of depending on their validity
they're the result they give then you
can come to different different
conclusions than if you try to take a
moral stance okay I I don't know what
you just said you just lost me but I'm
gonna try to I'm not sure either so okay
so so this is what I understood your
first question to be let's say that I
believe I haven't ARMA and that that
adharma is negative or positive how do I
know whether like my Dharma how do I
objectively reflect upon whether my
Dharma is correct or incorrect that's
what I understood your first question to
be it wasn't about changing anyone's
mind about anything it was about like
introspection and figuring out your own
karma right I guess it's that there are
different sets of ideas which appear to
be self-evident if you believe in them
and if you fall within one of these sets
of ideas then you can believe one thing
to be morally right sure whereas another
set of ideas will have that thing to be
morally abhorrent fine so capture God
the question that so you're talking
about something that sounds a little bit
philosophical my main question for you
is I heard two separate questions one is
about within you and one is you
interacting with another human being
whatever constructive ideas or whatever
you want to talk about is fine but like
do you see that those are fundamentally
different things that when I figure out
for myself and be trying to convince the
world of something else
those are like different endeavors sort
of I seem is different
okay so like what I'm talking about is
is figuring something out for yourself
and trying to convince another human
being are like two completely different
things like to me those are
fundamentally different and I'm just
trying to get a sense of whether yeah
it's it's a two-way relationship you
know like right there's a but this way
capture God there's a difference between
me figuring out what do I want to eat
for dinner tonight and me convincing my
wife that we should eat something else
right right so I guess my my my main
thing that I'm latching on to for no
particular reason is that there are
different sets of ideas in the world and
not necessarily that you should try and
convince someone else of their ideas or
not not that usually convince someone
else that your ideas are correct over
theirs but rather how do you how do you
make those ideas fit with each other how
how is there some sort of one dharma
whereas there are a lot of different
ideas in the world there isn't one
Dharma okay so I I really don't I think
you're you're I don't know what you're
so I hear what you're saying I think
it's it's a slightly separate direction
from when where I was hoping to go sure
I'm just raising questions that I think
will be relevant yeah I appreciate you
raising the questions but I mean I think
the first question you asked was the
closest to the relevance of what we're
talking about is like which i think is
like how do you know whether your dharma
is correct dr. kay can I ask a very
essential question to this sure okay
this is like really the crux to my my
discussion here at all I might be
jumping the gun here but like what's the
utility of the karma aspect I think
that's a prime aspect where you get the
admiration of other people because like
I've lived my life thinking that I have
to make up my goal is totally
independently from the others around me
and that's like what I seem to hear from
basically everyone right that you want
to derive your own purpose from reality
not that like you want to let other
people influence you but that you use
your mind your reasoning your logic to
figure out what you enjoy most and then
you pursue that what's the utility of
like
allowing other people to determine that
for you partially yes so I I don't I I
don't I sort of disagree with the
premise of your question so the first
thing is use the word admiration as a
correlation with government right karma
is not about admiration as nothing that
admiration is about ego so I don't think
that you should develop your Dharma
based on the admiration of others I
think you should develop your Dharma
based on Karma which is your
circumstance so in my case you know when
I did the reddit AMA like people said
like hey so I mean I definitely got an
ego boost from it but then I noticed
that ego and I was kind of like okay at
the end of the day like let's just set
the ego aside a lot of people think I'm
smart that's kind of cool but if I stop
and really think and I set my ego aside
the bigger issue is that a lot of people
need help and I don't think that has
anything to add narration I think it's
just like they need help and so that
drove me feel like you're determining
that on your own you're not determining
that because you're like because you
know like you're determining whether
people actually have a demand for
something totally independently right so
Rosa Parks made the decision
independently that racism yes and even
has a sequencer did okay but you're
still saying that I mean what if someone
this might sound crazy but like what if
someone doesn't really find much
pleasure in like serving others in this
way yeah that's fine that's that's okay
like I'm not trying to attribute a value
judgement towards doing something I
think we're getting a little bit I
appreciate y'all's questions I'm I love
these kinds of discussions but I'm
wondering if like we're going a little
bit too far afield of the main topic
which is how good and yes let me just a
little cab on screen yeah sure so let me
just try to let me try to just summarize
because I think you guys basically gave
I mean I'm not trying to say y'all are
allowed to give me the answers that I
don't want but I think you guys you guys
filled in the main gap which I think you
guys did a good job of okay see that
helps a lot now it's duty it's not I
thought it was purpose in like your
individual sense no so so and I think
here's the main thing to remember so if
you're looking for your Dharma the first
phase is to prepare
right so this is what brahmacari ashram
means it's like to be a student so you
don't know what life is gonna throw at
you you don't know what life is gonna
demand a view or in digital dystopias
case you don't know what you're gonna
demand of yourself right and so you
don't know like ten years from now if
you come to a particular conclusion that
a certain thing is good or a certain
thing is bad you need to prepare
yourself for that eventualities so
everyone's first thought MA is to
themselves that you should learn and
grow and understand how you work and
formulate thoughts about who you believe
who you are what you believe the rest of
the world is and to prepare and this
isn't just this doesn't mean getting a
degree it doesn't mean becoming a doctor
it doesn't like I'm not trying to put a
value judgment on helping other people
or things like that
because at the end of the day there are
people who become monks and go and sit
in a cave in the Himalayas for their
entire life and that's their hanuman
they're not helping anyone they're just
hanging out there because that's what
they've determined they need to do in
their life I do not judge them I do not
say that my Dharma is better than theirs
so your Dharma does change over time
though absolutely because okay just like
I said no it didn't and so I was
confused and then I had to listen for a
while to see like why house yeah I was
okay but I'm back on it and then what
happens as you prepare life is gonna
send you some stuff right if you
interact with the world life is gonna
send you things like it's gonna give you
bosses it's gonna give you job
opportunities it's gonna give you family
members it's gonna give you friends and
sometimes in my case it's gonna give you
the Internet that wants to know more
about what you think and then you have
to rise to that challenge but that's
determined by karma and everyone's got
amaz different right so my Dharma is
determined by my Karma but digital
dystopias karma is different his family
is different his upbringing is different
his skills are different that's all
encapsulated with Dharma that
circumstance that is your Karma
yes chad is my karma oh and then what
happens is if you're thoughtful you come
up with your Dharma
so this Terramax I had before I had this
one right so so like a Oh a healing is
like a relatively recent thing but I had
it when I first came back in 2015 and
then the reddit was in 2018 and so your
thought about changes over time
and so absolutely so I'd say that the
first thing that you guys need to do if
you're looking for your entitlement is
prepare just understand that it doesn't
matter what life throws at you if you're
physically fit you're gonna be better at
it if you're mentally fit you're gonna
be better at it that you should learn as
much as you can you want to learn coding
go for it because if you learn coding
that may influence your government and
one day you may have the opportunity to
develop an app but that's only gonna
work if you learned how to code and the
other way to think about it is like now
people are asking me for help and like
that depends on this if I had not done
these things I wouldn't be able to help
anyone
or maybe I would but the capacity that I
have to help is determined by my
experiences and is determined by what I
do and also the shortcomings that I have
because I'm not able to help everyone
right there are some people that are not
gonna understand what I'm saying or not
gonna agree with what I'm saying and
that's perfectly fine I'm not saying I'm
right but that I'm gonna have
limitations too because I can't do
everything and that's determined because
when I was in India at the end of the
day like after I came back from India
and I was in the u.s. I still played
Warcraft 3 I still play dota if I had
studied harder maybe I would be able to
like do a better job today on stream if
I had studied harder at any point I
could have done a better job with any of
the people that I've talked to it's
possible but at this point I think the
main thing you need to do is prepare
prepare the third strength-building for
the raid and it doesn't because here's
the thing if you guys are playing the
game of life it doesn't matter
like what you are like ultimately when
you play a game you have to play the
character that you're playing so like
level up your character because the rest
of it is all circumstance whether you're
a doctor an engineer a monk a father
a truck driver it doesn't matter at the
end of the day you still are like
controlling player1 right so we're gone
player 1 that's Dharma number 1 it's
like make player 1 level up player 1 the
best that you can and then yes yeah so I
recently found myself in a situation
where I think my Dharma has changed or
I've gotten a new responsibility per se
I don't have the background to deal with
that is it now my like responsibility if
this is something that I want to do to
prepare to go through those steps or
should I push them off to someone who
you know might have uh who might be able
to help them now I'm gonna let the rest
of the people in the in in this
discordant I'll try okay so I mean this
is from a totally outside perspective
with like no connection to like Hindu
spiritualism or anything just like
whenever you encounter a new challenge
in life right you want to gradually
build up your strength so that you can
overcome it eventually right so take
incremental steps to like improve your
ability to cope with it right now and
obviously don't expect perfection of
yourself immediately so I don't know for
instance if you're putting like a huge
social environment like maybe you go to
college and you're struggling to be
outgoing well maybe the first day you
should look and you smile and wave at
people but that's it and then the next
day or like a few days later you can
move that up to like starting new
conversations with people and eventually
you can become totally socially that
it's just self-improvement
does that answer your question flapjack
uh yeah a little bit I mean it does have
an answer and passion what was that what
do you say I'm just wondering if someone
else has an answer for flapjacks
question I think flap said something but
I cut off oh I was just talking you know
that this this is a background I think I
would want to pursue so what you're
saying makes sense just like slowly
level up but I'm wondering if it's worth
it to just sort of drop what I'm doing
and really try to go that well what do
you want do you want to achieve it or
not that's what you have to determine
and you can only determine that like
through really really critical thinking
maybe meditation you know I'm like more
of a secular person this so I don't
really suggest that stuff as much but
just like you know consider the things
you value most figure out what you like
in life what you don't like and it's
it's a tough decision but you have to
take risks like this in life so either
yes or no either you know I'm going to
pursue this goal or not
let's see you so I said go for it
capture gun well I think it depends on
exactly what we're talking about but it
sounds like there's sort of a family
members in need or someone closer yours
in need who you feel like you could help
but if you do so it might be at the cost
of your own personal development is that
sound correct at all yes I mean that's
actually pretty spot-on and I've
actually already taken steps I think I
had contacted dr. K on reddit earlier
this week asking like how to become a
recovery coach just say well I want to
like take steps toward down that path if
I can and the only thing I'm not a
psychologist and I'm not qualified to
talk about this but I think the only
thing that really matters is helping
people understand themselves and sort of
in order to do that you have to be able
to understand them okay I think that
necessarily confliction I want to just
jump in for a second because I need to
get going first in a few minutes but
first of all I think this is great that
you guys are have
this discussion and I think this is why
we built this discord right so like for
people to work through their Dharma to
ask questions of each other to help
support each other I'll sort of offer
one or two kind of last thoughts and
then I'm gonna bounce but you guys by
all means can continue the discussion
the first talking on stream no I'm gonna
stop the stream but you guys the first
thing is that you know if you're not in
a position to help someone cut yourself
some slack
but at the same time that maybe your
karma telling you that you should
prepare in a particular way right so I
think if you want to like do something
and you feel like okay I really do want
to help this person but I'm not able to
that's not your fault that you can't
help them the last thing is I generally
tend to avoid statements like drop
things entirely because I think usually
there's some middle road so I just be
careful about that like you could
probably do more than one thing at once
and sacrifice is oftentimes you know it
should be the last resort not the first
resort but I think it's great that you
guys are thinking about this the last is
there was one question that people were
asking about like how do you know if
your Dharma is right or comes from a
good place and I thought capture or my
interpretation of capture God's question
I thought was a good one which doesn't
mean that his wasn't a good one it's
just I liked his question because it's
one that I wanted to answer we need to
misinterpret but I was trying to be yeah
so how do you know whether your Dharma
is like right or wrong like if I'm a
racist and I think that like you know
genocide needs to happen for a
particular race how do I know whether
that Dharma is correct or incorrect and
I think this is an excellent question
because it comes down to how do you know
when to trust your mind or to not trust
your mind so your mind comes up with
conclusions all the time about what you
should or shouldn't do but how do you
know whether that like whether to trust
what your mind is telling you or not
trust what your mind is telling you and
I think the short answer is you have to
figure out like where you got that
belief and for a lot of people who want
to hurt the world or do damage to other
people
their beliefs about inequality or that
things should be a particular way or
rooted an anger and in turn that anger
is oftentimes rooted in hatred I'm sorry
the angers we didn't hurt so people who
I've noticed that a lot of people who
hate in the world have liked like the
source of their hatred is some kind of
hurt and until you fully understand and
explore that I don't think that you can
really understand your karma and
generally speaking I think people who
determined that they're their course in
life is based out of being hurt in some
way you've got to be really careful with
that because I don't think that's a calm
or clear mind that's making that
decision okay I was just gonna say like
it's not necessarily true I think you
actually said this yourself that like
something rooted in hate is necessarily
like irrational because I think like a
lot of the things in my life that are
rooted in I mean not hatred for other
people but like hatred of some aspect of
reality like those are some of the
things I'm most proud than that like
give me the greatest sense of purpose in
life so it's not just the source but
like it's whether it's rationally
developed from that source of what
you're saying yeah so you should reflect
and understand I mean I I think I think
digital to Sophie I think you know
you're you're you you sort of set up a
circumstance or you're describing a
circumstance of your life in the way
that you approach things that I think
are a little bit unique which is cool
but I think in general what I would tell
people is if you're trying to understand
whether your Dharma is correct or
incorrect try to try to find like the
the origin of where you got the idea
that you're thinking about pursuing and
if you reflect upon that goes if you
reflect on it and then you decide okay
this is like this is the result of like
hatred or this is the result of like
rational thought or this is the result
of X Y or Z then then you'll kind of
know how to move forward and this is
something that even I struggle with
because I'm trying to understand like
what is my Dharma to like the people on
Street like what should I do with my
life now because I have a job I have a
family how do i reconcile the Dharma's
that I clearly have to my patience with
the Dharma's that I have for like twitch
and streaming and helping all these
people because there's ego and what I've
discovered is that there's ego there
right so part of when I say oh I want to
quit my job and I went stream full time
ego is a big part of that because I get
loved through stream in a way and by
many more people than I get loved in
regular life and so I should be careful
about what I determine my Dharma to be
as long as that ego is active so what's
the calculation or whatever you do to
figure out what you ought to do then I
mean so I think so I use a systematic
process of you know things like
meditation to reflect within myself and
see where the origin of things are
coming from and the more that I align
with helping an individual person or
just doing the best that I can on a day
that's what I really go for so it's not
about whether a streamer is big or small
like we struggle with this um in terms
of like okay if a big streamer comes on
like what do we do do we bump someone
else who is on our schedule do we push
them back like how do we do that like
what feels good about that what feels
bad about that how much of that has to
do with like you know ego and all kinds
of things so I think it's an ongoing
process there isn't a simple answer I
think the main thing is that you kind of
go back to this which is training
yourself right training yourself to
understand things training yourself to
understand yourself studying different
kinds of texts whether they be man's
search for meaning by Viktor Frankl or
the Mahabharat or a Harry Potter to like
go and learn from different places and
things and like try to like figure out
how what your compass is gonna be based
on and the more that you learn about
yourself and the more that you acquire
from the rest of the world like lead
counter Montecristo if you want to talk
about Dharma and the struggles with what
you should do like read count of
Montecristo it's an amazing book read
the maha part learn about this stuff
because it is an individual journey for
everyone and no one has all the answers
least of all me yeah exactly yeah
exactly I think that's something really
important to mention I don't want to be
rude but like it seems like in a lot of
times I'm like discordant which it seems
like a lot of people are developing this
sort of like I don't want to be rude but
like cult of personality sort of around
you we're like oh what you're saying is
the necessary and proper guide to them
it's like what happened with Jordan
Peterson I think it can be really toxic
so I'm glad you're taking steps to kind
of that
okay thanks for the feedback all right
so thank you guys very much I'm gonna go
ahead and sign off discord but thank you
guys for hopping on and appreciate the
discussion and you know I'm curious what
people thought like how did that go
is that good do you guys want to do that
[Music]
like do you guys want to hop on discord
from time to time like if it seems like
a good thing to do